We just finished TypeScript.
And we are going to talk about Redux now.
So I've taught Redux as part of
the complete intro to React for
now years, right.
I like Redux.
I used to use Redux quite a lot.
And then there was a long
period of time when React,
core React kind of caught up to
not really needing Redux anymore.
That I kind of let it fall by the wayside.
In fact,
the past couple courses I've taught Redux,
I kind of preface it always with-.
I'm going to teach you Redux ,so
that I hope that you don't use Redux
later, right?
Cuz most people kind of have like
this association with React and
Redux kind of in the same line of thought.
I'm gonna say this has
changed relatively recently.
They released something
called Redux Toolkit and
they took what was hard about Redux,
and they made it very easy.
So I'm kind of coming back around to,
from never use Redux,
to maybe sometimes in
specific cases Redux Toolkit
can solve some really cool problems for
you.
So why do we have Redux?
Maybe let's start with what is Redux?
Redux is a central store for your data.
So if you remember from the complete
intro, we talked about context, right?
We used to not have context from React,
that used to not be a thing at all.
And so having a centralized store for
app level data,
you needed some third
party library to do that.
We had Flux before and
then we ended up with Redux.
Which is kind of the pinnacle
of the Flux architecture.
But we ended up also with MobX and and
some other I don't even
know how to say that.
But there's that library
that I can't pronounce.
And there's a couple other ones.
I still think at the core of it Redux
is probably the most popular one.
But yeah, there are some
other options there as well.
Then we got context we didn't really
need a centralized store anymore,
because we have this ability
to share context across a app.
And so Redux ended up being kind
of superfluous at that point.
So I'm coming back around
that with Redux Toolkit,
which is this,
basically it's a framework around Redux.
That Redux can now be useful again.
So, why do we use Redux?
Context used to be a lot worse,
but now it's better.
But the nice thing about Redux
code is it's extremely testable.
That's the point of Redux,
is they basically take all
of your state change, right?
Going from state A to state B.
And they make all of those
transition states testable.
95% of your bugs and UIs is just gonna
be state management gone awry, right?
So, if you can make stateful
transitions testable,
you're going to eliminate entire classes
of bugs that your app is gonna have.
That seems pretty useful to me, right?
So it's testable and it's debuggable.
Which two of my favorite things if
you've been listening to me long enough.
I always harp on is this readable,
is this testable and is this debuggable?
So that's where we are with Redux.
It used to be really verbose to set up.
And Redux Toolkit has now
made that not very verbose.
So if you want to learn raw
Redux without Redux Toolkit,
take version seven of this course, right?
It'll be version four
of Intermediate React.
That has a whole section on Redux.
It goes through with raw Redux.
But today we're gonna go through with
Redux Toolkit which I think is gonna be
a more pleasant experience for you.
So Redux, it's just,
they kind of pull apart all the various
different parts of changing state and
it made it hard to write.
But now we're gonna use Redux toolkit
which is going to make it a lot easier.
So start with a fresh
copy of the application.
So if you've been doing like
the TypeScript stuff, put that aside.
And we gonna start again from a fresh
copy of 14-context from the repo.
And then we're gonna say npm
install @reduxjs/toolkit.
And we're gonna do @1.8 .6.
And then we're gonna use
a library that glues,
React Redux together,
called react-redux@8.0.4.
So that is to say,
you can use Redux outside of React.
Redux works with Angular.
And I imagine it works with a lots
of other frameworks as well.
But we are going to be
obviously using it with React.
Okay, so now that we have that,
we're gonna go into our source directory.
And we're going to create
a file called store.js.
This is basically where we're going
to instantiate our Redux store.
We're going to import.
Configure store from @Redux-toolkit,
we're going to const store equals
let's get rid of that configure store
And we are gonna give it
like a reducer object here.
And for right now, it's going to be empty,
but eventually we're gonna start giving
stuff to it, and
then we're going to export default store.
This, if you've ever done Redux before,
this should look pretty familiar to you.
It's relatively similar.
We're then going to migrate our
existing pet adoption application
to store some of its store, or
some of its data, in Redux.
Not all of it.
And when you use Redux with React,
it's not like you don't use state anymore.
That all of the use state calls that
you're gonna use in React at that point
are gonna be very much like,
show this modal, hide this modal,
is active is not active.
It's gonna be very UI state kind of,
sort of state.
As opposed to,
you're gonna put everything into Redux,
is gonna be the user, the pets,
the location that they're in.
Those kind of things,
those kind of app level states.
Okay, so in app.jsx you can
delete the adopted pet context.
We'll get rid of that.
And you can delete the use state here
from React, so you can get rid of that.
Okay.
And then at the top here we're
going to have to import provider.
From React Redux and you're also going to
have to import the store from ./store.
Okay, you can drop this use
state call here inside of app,
And you can basically replace this
adopted pet context with the provider.
The store equals store,
like that and again.
So I just replaced the adopted
pet provider with just
the provider from React Redux.
So this is going to stick our
store on the context for React.
Which means now anywhere inside
of our react application,
we can access this Redux store.
There's nothing in it yet,
but we'll get there.
You can kind of think of Redux
as a miniature database for
your little application.
It's an imperfect analogy, so
don't run too far with it.
And then you can kind of think of,
we can dispatch actions and
queries to our little database, right.
Kind of an imperfect way to think
about Redux and what it does for
your application.